-> What are Rollups ?
   Rollups process transactions on another, faster blockchain (known as a layer 2), then port the transaction data back to the parent blockchain.

-> Types of Rollups?
1. ZKRollups: ZK Rollups are layer 2 scaling solution. It does computation and state management off chain and only stores transaction data on layer 1 chain like Ethereum.
  They processes multiple transactions in batches and then post some minimal summary data on mainnet. 
  They also produce validity proofs to prove the correctness of their changes.
  States are maintain in zk rollup using smart contracts, to validate the state, they have to generate validity proof. This means that ZK-rollups only need to provide validity proofs
  to finalize transactions on Ethereum instead of posting all transaction data on-chain like optimistic rollups.
  There is no delay in moving funds from zk rollups because exit transactions are executed once the ZK-rollups contract verifies the validity proof.
  But there is a delay in Optimistic rollups where anyone is allowed to challenge the exit transaction with fraud proof.
  ZK-rollups write transactions to Ethereum as calldata. calldata is where data that is included in external calls to smart contract functions gets 
  stored. Information in calldata is published on the blockchain, allowing anyone to reconstruct the rollup’s state independently. ZK-rollups use 
  compression techniques to reduce transaction data—for example, accounts are represented by an index rather than an address, which saves 28 bytes
  of data. On-chain data publication is a significant cost for rollups, so data compression can reduce fees for users.

2. Optimistic rollups : Since optimistic rollups don’t operate with validity proofs, they employ a different approach whereby transactions are assumed
  to be valid until their correctness is challenged. After an optimistic rollup batch is submitted on the base layer, there’s a time window called a 
  challenge period during which anyone can challenge the outcome of a rollup transaction by computing a fraud proof. If the fraud proof succeeds, 
  the rollup protocol executes the transaction again and updates the rollup’s state. If optimistic rollup state transitions aren’t challenged by the
  time the challenge period elapses, the batch of transactions is deemed valid and accepted on the layer 1.

References:
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/scaling/zk-rollups/
https://chain.link/education-hub/zero-knowledge-rollup
